---
layout: post
title: "Machine Learning Model Database"
date: 2018-10-30
---

<style>body {text-align: justify}</style>

# Machine Learning Model Database

In many Machine Learning or Data Science workflows, it is common to save and checkpoint several models and compare how they perform on a held-out validation dataset. These saved models could be -

 - checkpoints in a single training trial saved at different time epochs, in which case the network structure would be the same, but the weights and parameters of the network would be different for the various checkpoints. Checkpointing allows us to compare and contrast the training and validation accuracy across the other saved models in different time epochs.
 - Or they could be different training trials where the network structure has been tweaked and changed to optimize the performance for the same task.

For such scenarios, it would be very useful to have a version control tool like git and a storage repository like GitHub for storing, browsing, and retrieving these different models.

This tool will act as a “Database as a Service.” These saved models get saved in a cloud data store. Each new model version has attributes/metadata describing the model at that stage; this will make the database searchable and queryable. This tool is complemented with a web-based UI dashboard where users can view the different versions of the model and query them based on their metadata. Queries can be something like “Object detection model on imagenet dataset with accuracy>90% and memory footprint<100MB and can perform inference on a 1GHz processor”. The user will then be allowed to sift through the results, compare and visualize the metrics and accuracy of a model with different validation datasets.

Another unique feature of this tool is its ability to compute the difference between two saved models( like `git diff`). So that the user will be able to see how the model has changed between different versions. This will help in explaining potential changes in model performance across different versions. This will also enable collaboration in the data science workflow where other team members can select different versions of the model, fine-tune it and push it back to the database, comment on changes and improvements that could be made to the model.

Model ‘diffs’ can be calculated by splitting the task into two steps -

 - Compute the difference in network structure. Check if more nodes or layers have been added/removed from the network structure.
 - Then we can pick the nodes and layers that are consistent in the two model versions and measure how their parameters and weights differ from each other.

**********

Later Edits -

1. In January 2021, TFX Blog published this — https://blog.tensorflow.org/2021/01/ml-metadata-version-control-for-ml.html, proposing a versioning mechanism for machine learning models.

2. In February 2021, Google introduced - Introducing Model Search: An Open Source Platform for Finding Optimal ML Models. :)