---
layout: post
title: "AI Hype"
date: 2020-04-26
categories: misc
---

<style>body {text-align: justify}</style>

I recently listened to a talk by Zachary Lipton titled - Machine Learning: The Opportunity and the Opportunists. The talk is two years old but still relevant, important, and informative.

Here are a few things that stuck out for me on this matter -

- Excitement( in a field) + Ignorance = Misinformation
- AI/ML is currently in the same phase that the dot com boom was in the 90s. Back then, anyone who could get a website registered was considered a software expert. And now anyone can become
  - a self-appointed AI authority or influencer with limited or no technical expertise.
  - or can get into positions of authority by throwing money at the problem.
- Some researchers try to anthropomorphize their technology to sensationalize things — such as calling answer prediction models, text comprehension. ( I think it is okay to attempt to catch the attention of your readers with fancy words/phrases, but the readers have to be wary and discerning while reading the text)
- The number of people who can train neural networks has blown up, but the number of people who can reason about it, unfortunately, has not. By reasoning about neutral networks, I mean thinking about things like when might this network break or what the results might mean in a qualitative sense. ( which is why concepts like causality are probably necessary).

Do listen to the whole talk; it is pretty short and might be worth the time.
