---
layout: post
title: "20 Books"
date: 2022-07-25
---

<style>body {text-align: justify}</style>

Nathan Goodman recently posted a blog titled 20 Books to Read in your 20s. Since then, it has become a trend on the Internet where various people are posting their own lists of – “20 books to read in your 20s”. So I thought even I should make my own list, so here goes.

I am in my early 30s, so it was not long ago that I was in my 20s, so my list is more about the most impactful and important books I have read so far rather than listing books that I read later in life and wished I had read them earlier.

1. Last Lecture by Randy Pausch
2. From Third World to First: The Singapore Story by Lee Kuan Yew
3. The Pleasure of Finding Things Out by Richard Feynman
4. Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy by Raghuram Rajan
5. Saving Capitalism from the Capitalists by Raghuram Rajan
6. Clash of Civilizations by Samuel Huntington
7. Micromotives and Macrobehavior by Thomas Schelling
8. Anarchy, State and Utopia by Robert Nozick
9. Psychology of Money by Morgan Housel
10. The Ultimate Resource by Julian Simon
11. Essential Writings of B.R. Ambedkar
12. Grihabhanga by S.L. Bhyrappa
13. The Difficulty of Being Good: On the Subtle Art of Dharma – Gurcharan Das
14. Yugantha by Irawati Karve
(I have left 6 slots in the above list open because I cannot think of any more books that I have read that I can add to this list.)

Some comments on why I have chosen some of the above books follow –

Books 1-3 in the list – Last Lecture, Singapore Story, and Pleasure of Finding Things Out – I see these books as inspirational. They teach general life lessons and impart sound philosophy, and they represent an ideal that we can aspire towards.

Books 4-10, from Fault Lines to Ultimate Resource, are books that have informed me a great deal about the world, how our economic systems are organized, and theories about how human societies function.

Books 10-13 – from Ambedkar’s Essential Writings to Irawati Karve’s Yugantha are books that have given me a radically new perspective on things I thought I knew. These are books that have expanded my mental horizons.